# rml_disparities
Repository for RML-Disparities project

Title: Recreational Marijuana Laws and Racial Disparities in Arrests, Psychological Health, and Mortality

Authors: Zach Fone, United States Air Force Academy, zachary.fone@afacademy.af.edu; Gokhan Kumpas, California State University - Los Angeles, gkumpas@calstatela.edu; Joseph J. Sabia, San Diego State University, jsabia@sdsu.edu

Abstract: Proponents of recreational marijuana laws (RMLs) argue that ending marijuana prohibition will reduce racial disparities in arrests and health. Using data from four national datasets (the Uniform Crime Reports, the National Survey on Drug Use and Health, the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, and the National Vital Statistics System Mortality Files) and a difference-in-differences approach, this study presents new evidence on the effects of RMLs on racial disparities in drug-related arrests, psychological health, and mortality.  First, we find that RML adoption is associated with a 2.1 per 1,000-person greater reduction in marijuana-related arrests among Black as compared to White adults.  However, this differential race-specific arrest rate reduction is entirely a reflection of pre-treatment racial differences in marijuana arrests.  In percentage terms (relative to pre-treatment arrest rates), RMLs did little to narrow racial disparities in arrests. Second, RML adoption — when accompanied by legal recreational dispensaries — is associated with an increase in violent crime arrests among Blacks relative to Whites.  This result could suggest a racially targeted reallocation of policing resources to fight violent crime.  Finally, while RMLs do not appear to have a racially disparate impact on poor mental health days among adults, we find stronger evidence that RMLs reduced drug-involved suicides and opioid-related mortality among non-Hispanic Whites relative to racial/ethnic minorities.  We conclude that RMLs largely failed to reduce racial disparities in arrests or drug-involved mortality.
